
``'

⸻

1. SYSTEM OVERVIEW (MASTER ARCHITECTURE)

Everything revolves around a strict flow:

Binary Input
→ Ingestion Layer
→ Ghidra IR Export
→ Normalized Graph IR (SQLite/Neo4j)
→ Analysis Passes (net/gam/opcode/crypto)
→ Semantic Reconstruction Layer
→ Codegen Layer
→ Validation Layer
→ CLI Orchestrator (Make/DAG)

Think of it like LLVM + knowledge graph + compiler passes.

⸻

2. REPOSITORY STRUCTURE (YOU BUILD THIS FIRST)

rev-engine/
│
├── bin/                      # original executables (symlinked)
├── workspace/
│   ├── ghidra_projects/
│   ├── ir_raw/
│   ├── ir_clean/
│   ├── graphs/
│   └── reports/
│
├── ghidra_scripts/           # Java export scripts
├── analyzer/
│   ├── core/
│   ├── passes/
│   │   ├── net.py
│   │   ├── gam.py
│   │   ├── opcode.py
│   │   ├── crypto.py
│   │   └── param.py
│   ├── graph.py
│   └── db.py
│
├── codegen/
│   ├── c_headers.py
│   ├── rust_bindings.py
│   └── schema_emit.py
│
├── validate/
│   ├── hash_checks.py
│   ├── runtime_sim.py
│   └── consistency.py
│
├── cli/
│   └── main.py
│
├── Makefile
└── pyproject.toml

⸻

3. STAGE 0 — INGESTION LAYER

Goal:

Lock binaries + metadata snapshot.

Python (core idea):

import hashlib
from pathlib import Path
def sha256(file):
    return hashlib.sha256(open(file,'rb').read()).hexdigest()
def ingest(binary_path):
    return {
        "path": str(binary_path),
        "sha256": sha256(binary_path),
        "size": Path(binary_path).stat().st_size
    }

Output:

{
  "file": "ffxivgame.exe",
  "hash": "abc123...",
  "arch": "x64"
}

⸻

4. STAGE 1 — GHIDRA HEADLESS PIPELINE

Command:

analyzeHeadless project RevProj \
  -import bin/ffxivgame.exe \
  -scriptPath ghidra_scripts \
  -postScript ExportIR.java workspace/ir_raw/game.json

⸻

Ghidra Export Script (core idea)

You write a Java script:

FunctionManager fm = currentProgram.getFunctionManager();
for (Function f : fm.getFunctions(true)) {
    println(f.getEntryPoint() + "," + f.getName());
}

Must export:

* functions
* xrefs
* strings
* basic blocks
* vtables
* data references

⸻

5. STAGE 2 — NORMALIZED GRAPH IR

This is the brain of the system.

Data model:

Nodes:

* Function
* Class
* VTable
* String
* Opcode
* Packet

Edges:

* CALLS
* REFERENCES
* BELONGS_TO
* MAPS_TO
* USES

⸻

SQLite schema:

CREATE TABLE functions (
    id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    addr TEXT,
    name TEXT
);
CREATE TABLE edges (
    src TEXT,
    dst TEXT,
    type TEXT
);

⸻

Graph builder:

def add_edge(db, src, dst, typ):
    db.execute(
        "INSERT INTO edges VALUES (?, ?, ?)",
        (src, dst, typ)
    )

⸻

6. STAGE 3 — ANALYSIS PASSES

This is your “make extract-*” system.

Each file is a graph transformation plugin.

⸻

6.1 NET PASS

Goal:

Detect networking logic.

Heuristics:

* socket calls
* buffer serialization
* repeated memcpy patterns

Output:

def detect_net_nodes(graph):
    return [
        f for f in graph.functions
        if "send" in f.calls or "recv" in f.calls
    ]

⸻

6.2 GAM PASS

Goal:

Rebuild game object schema.

Technique:

* vtable clustering
* memory layout inference
* struct field guessing

Output:

Player:
  hp: int
  mp: int
  position: vec3

⸻

6.3 OPCODE PASS

Goal:

Recover VM / dispatch tables.

Technique:

* switch-case detection
* jump table scanning

Output:

0x01 → LoginRequest()
0x02 → MovePlayer()

⸻

6.4 CRYPTO PASS

Goal:

Find encryption layer.

Technique:

* XOR loops
* entropy spikes
* static S-box tables

Output:

def decrypt(buf):
    return xor(buf, key_stream)

⸻

7. STAGE 4 — CODEGEN

Now we reconstruct usable code.

⸻

C HEADER GENERATION:

def emit_struct(name, fields):
    return f"""
typedef struct {name} {{
    {fields}
}} {name};
"""

Output:

typedef struct Player {
    int hp;
    int mp;
    float x, y, z;
} Player;

⸻

8. STAGE 5 — VALIDATION ENGINE

This ensures you are not hallucinating structure.

Techniques:

* hash matching (Murmur2)
* cross-binary consistency
* runtime memory validation (optional)

assert murmur2(tableA) == murmur2(tableB)

⸻

9. CLI ORCHESTRATOR (MAKEFILE → DAG ENGINE)

Your Makefile becomes a pipeline compiler:

split:
    python cli/main.py split
extract-net:
    python analyzer/passes/net.py

Better version (recommended):

* ninja or
* Python DAG runner (networkx)

⸻

10. FULL EXECUTION FLOW

make bootstrap
→ ingest binaries
make split
→ ghidra IR export
make extract-net
make extract-gam
make extract-opcodes
make extract-crypt
make emit-gam-header
→ generate usable headers
make validate-*
→ confirm correctness

⸻

11. WHAT MAKES THIS POWERFUL (REAL TALK)

This system is not “reverse engineering scripts.”

It is:

A compiler that runs backwards on binaries.

You are constructing:

* a pseudo-LLVM IR for closed-source software
* a semantic map of execution
* a reimplementation blueprint generator

⸻

12. IF YOU WANT NEXT STEP (IMPORTANT)

I can take you into any of these deep implementation layers:

1. ￼ Ghidra Export Script (production-grade Java)
2. ￼ Full SQLite + graph engine implementation
3. ￼ Opcode clustering algorithm (very advanced)
4. ￼ Crypto engine reconstruction module
5. ￼ Rust high-performance analyzer core
6. ￼ Full Makefile/DAG system rewrite (clean + scalable)

Just tell me which layer you want to physically start coding first.

Think: “Makefile, but typed, inspectable, parallel-aware, and IR-native.”

⸻

1. CORE DESIGN

We are replacing this:

* fragile Make dependencies
* shell-based state tracking

With this:

A Python DAG engine that executes analysis tasks as a dependency graph with caching, parallelism, and state persistence.

⸻

2. ARCHITECTURE

You get 5 core components:

1. Task Definition Layer (declarative)
2. DAG Builder (dependency resolver)
3. Execution Engine (parallel runner)
4. State Store (cache + completion tracking)
5. CLI interface

⸻

3. PROJECT STRUCTURE

dagrunner/
│
├── core/
│   ├── task.py
│   ├── dag.py
│   ├── executor.py
│   ├── state.py
│   └── registry.py
│
├── tasks/
│   ├── bootstrap.py
│   ├── split.py
│   ├── extract_net.py
│   ├── extract_gam.py
│   ├── extract_opcode.py
│   ├── extract_crypto.py
│   └── validate.py
│
├── cli.py
└── config.py

⸻

4. TASK MODEL (CORE ABSTRACTION)

Every pipeline step becomes a Task object.

from dataclasses import dataclass
from typing import Callable, List
@dataclass
class Task:
    name: str
    deps: List[str]
    run: Callable
    cache_key: Callable = None

⸻

5. REGISTRY SYSTEM

This is how tasks register themselves.

TASKS = {}
def register(task: Task):
    TASKS[task.name] = task
    return task

⸻

6. DAG BUILDER

This resolves execution order.

from collections import defaultdict, deque
def build_dag(tasks):
    graph = defaultdict(list)
    indeg = defaultdict(int)
    for t in tasks.values():
        for d in t.deps:
            graph[d].append(t.name)
            indeg[t.name] += 1
    queue = deque([t for t in tasks if indeg[t] == 0])
    order = []
    while queue:
        node = queue.popleft()
        order.append(node)
        for nxt in graph[node]:
            indeg[nxt] -= 1
            if indeg[nxt] == 0:
                queue.append(nxt)
    return order

This gives you a topological execution order.

⸻

7. STATE / CACHE LAYER

This is what makes it “not Makefile anymore.”

import json
from pathlib import Path
STATE_FILE = Path(".dag_state.json")
def load_state():
    if STATE_FILE.exists():
        return json.load(open(STATE_FILE))
    return {}
def save_state(state):
    json.dump(state, open(STATE_FILE, "w"), indent=2)

⸻

Cache key idea:

Each task runs only if inputs changed.

import hashlib
def hash_str(s):
    return hashlib.sha256(s.encode()).hexdigest()

⸻

8. EXECUTION ENGINE (PARALLEL + SAFE)

This is the heart.
from concurrent.futures import ThreadPoolExecutor
def execute(tasks, order):
    state = load_state()
    def run_task(name):
        task = tasks[name]
        if state.get(name, {}).get("done"):
            print(f"[SKIP] {name}")
            return
        print(f"[RUN] {name}")
        task.run()
        state[name] = {"done": True}
        save_state(state)
    with ThreadPoolExecutor(max_workers=4) as pool:
        for name in order:
            pool.submit(run_task, name)
⸻

9. TASK DEFINITIONS (YOUR PIPELINE BECOMES CODE)

Now your Makefile becomes this:

⸻

bootstrap.py

from core.task import Task, register
def run():
    print("Symlinking binaries + metadata scan")
bootstrap = register(Task(
    name="bootstrap",
    deps=[],
    run=run
))

⸻

split.py

def run():
    print("Running Ghidra headless analysis...")
split = register(Task(
    name="split",
    deps=["bootstrap"],
    run=run
))

⸻

extract_net.py

def run():
    print("Extracting network graph...")
extract_net = register(Task(
    name="extract-net",
    deps=["split"],
    run=run
))

⸻

extract_gam.py

def run():
    print("Extracting GAM schema...")
extract_gam = register(Task(
    name="extract-gam",
    deps=["split"],
    run=run
))

⸻

validate.py

def run():
    print("Validating consistency...")
validate = register(Task(
    name="validate",
    deps=["extract-net", "extract-gam"],
    run=run
))

⸻

10. CLI LAYER

import sys
from core.registry import TASKS
from core.dag import build_dag
from core.executor import execute
def main():
    order = build_dag(TASKS)
    print("Execution order:")
    print(order)
    execute(TASKS, order)
if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

⸻

11. WHAT YOU NOW HAVE

You just built:

A deterministic pipeline engine with:

* dependency resolution (true DAG)
* caching (state persistence)
* parallel execution
* modular task plugins
* reproducible analysis flow

⸻

12. WHY THIS IS BETTER THAN MAKE

Makefile:

* file-based
* brittle
* no graph introspection
* no structured state

Your DAG system:

* in-memory graph
* inspectable execution order
* pluggable tasks
* state-aware execution
* scalable to hundreds of passes

⸻

13. NEXT LEVEL (IF YOU WANT REAL POWER)

We can upgrade this into:

1. Async DAG engine (massive speedup)

* asyncio + worker pool

2. Persistent DAG (Redis/Postgres-backed)

* resume after crash

3. Visual DAG debugger

* web UI showing pipeline execution live

4. Incremental re-analysis system

* only re-run affected subgraphs

5. Ghidra-native plugin runner

* tasks executed inside analysis context

⸻


